plugins/source/typeform/docs/overview.md, before:

The CloudQuery Typeform plugin pulls data from [Typeform](https://www.typeform.com/) and loads it into any supported CloudQuery destination (e.g. PostgreSQL, BigQuery, Snowflake, and [more](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/destination)).

See [tables](/docs/plugins/sources/typeform/tables) for a list of resources supported.

## Example Configuration

This example syncs from Typeform to a Postgres destination. The (top level) source spec section is described in the [Source Spec Reference](/docs/reference/source-spec).

:configuration

## Authentication

:authentication

## Configuration Reference

This is the (nested) spec used by the Typeform source plugin:

- `access_token` (`string`) (required)

  Your [personal access token](https://www.typeform.com/developers/get-started/personal-access-token/) from the Typeform Dashboard.

- `base_url` (`string`) (optional) (default: `https://api.typeform.com`)

  The base URL to fetch data from. Use `https://api.eu.typeform.com` if your account is stored in the EU.

- `concurrency` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `100`)

  Maximum number of requests to perform concurrently.

- `queue_size` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `10000`)

  Maximum number of items to have in the queue before waiting for an unfinished request to complete.

## Running in a Containerized Environment

To run the Typeform plugin in a containerized environment, see the [Using CloudQuery Docker Registry Plugins Inside a Containerized Environment](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/advanced-topics/using-cloud-query-docker-registry-plugins-inside-a-containerized-environment) guide.

Commit message:

chore: Add a deprecation message to typeform plugin (#19707)
Adding a deprecation message to Typeform plugin. See
https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery-issues/issues/2812

plugins/source/typeform/docs/overview.md, after:

:::callout{type="warning"}
This plugin is now deprecated and will be removed from CloudQuery Hub soon.
:::

The CloudQuery Typeform plugin pulls data from [Typeform](https://www.typeform.com/) and loads it into any supported CloudQuery destination (e.g. PostgreSQL, BigQuery, Snowflake, and [more](https://hub.cloudquery.io/plugins/destination)).

See [tables](/docs/plugins/sources/typeform/tables) for a list of resources supported.

## Example Configuration

This example syncs from Typeform to a Postgres destination. The (top level) source spec section is described in the [Source Spec Reference](/docs/reference/source-spec).

:configuration

## Authentication

:authentication

## Configuration Reference

This is the (nested) spec used by the Typeform source plugin:

- `access_token` (`string`) (required)

  Your [personal access token](https://www.typeform.com/developers/get-started/personal-access-token/) from the Typeform Dashboard.

- `base_url` (`string`) (optional) (default: `https://api.typeform.com`)

  The base URL to fetch data from. Use `https://api.eu.typeform.com` if your account is stored in the EU.

- `concurrency` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `100`)

  Maximum number of requests to perform concurrently.

- `queue_size` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `10000`)

  Maximum number of items to have in the queue before waiting for an unfinished request to complete.

## Running in a Containerized Environment

To run the Typeform plugin in a containerized environment, see the [Using CloudQuery Docker Registry Plugins Inside a Containerized Environment](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/advanced-topics/using-cloud-query-docker-registry-plugins-inside-a-containerized-environment) guide.
