plugins/destination/postgresql/docs/overview.md, before:

---
name: PostgreSQL
stage: GA
title: PostgreSQL Destination Plugin
description: CloudQuery PostgreSQL destination plugin documentation
---

# PostgreSQL Destination Plugin

:badge

This destination plugin lets you sync data from a CloudQuery source to a PostgreSQL compatible database.

Supported database versions:

- PostgreSQL >= v10
- CockroachDB >= v20.2

## Configuration

### Example

:configuration

The (top level) spec section is described in the [Destination Spec Reference](/docs/reference/destination-spec).

:::callout{type="info"}
Make sure you use environment variable expansion in production instead of committing the credentials to the configuration file directly.
:::

The PostgreSQL destination utilizes batching, and supports [`batch_size`](/docs/reference/destination-spec#batch_size) and [`batch_size_bytes`](/docs/reference/destination-spec#batch_size_bytes).

### PostgreSQL Spec

This is the (nested) spec used by the PostgreSQL destination Plugin.

- `connection_string` (`string`) (required)

  Connection string to connect to the database. This can be a DSN or a URI, as per [`pgxpool`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/jackc/pgx/v4/pgxpool#ParseConfig)

  - `"user=user password=pass+0-[word host=localhost port=5432 dbname=mydb sslmode=disable"` _DSN format_
  - `"postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/mydb?sslmode=prefer"` _connect with tcp and prefer TLS_
  - `"postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/mydb?sslmode=disable&application_name=pgxtest&search_path=myschema&connect_timeout=5"` _be explicit with all options_
  - `"postgres://localhost:5432/mydb?sslmode=disable"` _connect with os username cloudquery is being run as_
  - `"postgres:///mydb?host=/tmp"` _connect over unix socket_
  - `"dbname=mydb"` _unix domain socket, just specifying the db name - useful if you want to use peer authentication_

- `pgx_log_level` (`string`) (optional) (default: `error`)

  Available: `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, `trace`.
  Defines what [`pgx`](https://github.com/jackc/pgx) call events should be logged.

- `batch_size` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `10000`)

  Maximum number of items that may be grouped together to be written in a single write.

- `batch_size_bytes` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `100000000` (= 100 MB))

  Maximum size of items that may be grouped together to be written in a single write.

- `batch_timeout` (`duration`) (optional) (default: `60s` (= 60 seconds))

  Maximum interval between batch writes.

- `create_performance_indexes` (`boolean`) (optional) (default: `false`)

  Creates indexes on tables that help with performance when using `write_mode: overwrite-delete-stale`.

### Verbose logging for debug

The PostgreSQL destination can be run in debug mode.

Note: This will use [`pgx`](https://github.com/jackc/pgx) built-in logging and might output data/sensitive information to logs so make sure to not use it in production but only for debugging.

```yaml copy
kind: destination
spec:
  name: postgresql
  path: cloudquery/postgresql
  registry: cloudquery
  version: "VERSION_DESTINATION_POSTGRESQL"
  spec:
    connection_string: ${PG_CONNECTION_STRING}
    pgx_log_level: debug # Available: error, warn, info, debug, trace. Default: "error"
```

Commit message:

feat: Retry on Postgres deadlock (#21268)
#### Summary

- [We do not recommend customers configure overlapping syncs](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/advanced-topics/running-cloudquery-in-parallel#no-overlapping-syncs).
  - Overlapping syncs can cause deadlocks in the Postgres destination.
  - Avoiding overlapping syncs is the primary recommendation to prevent deadlocks.
- As a secondary safeguard, this PR introduces retries to handle most Postgres deadlock scenarios (other destinations are out of scope).
  - Retries are attempted up to 5 times, with random jitter between attempts.
    - Deadlocks are rare, even with multiple concurrent syncs. Five retries balances resilience and respect for Postgres backpressure.
  - Users can enable this behaviour via the `retry_on_deadlock` option.

plugins/destination/postgresql/docs/overview.md, after:

---
name: PostgreSQL
stage: GA
title: PostgreSQL Destination Plugin
description: CloudQuery PostgreSQL destination plugin documentation
---

# PostgreSQL Destination Plugin

:badge

This destination plugin lets you sync data from a CloudQuery source to a PostgreSQL compatible database.

Supported database versions:

- PostgreSQL >= v10
- CockroachDB >= v20.2

## Configuration

### Example

:configuration

The (top level) spec section is described in the [Destination Spec Reference](/docs/reference/destination-spec).

:::callout{type="info"}
Make sure you use environment variable expansion in production instead of committing the credentials to the configuration file directly.
:::

The PostgreSQL destination utilizes batching, and supports [`batch_size`](/docs/reference/destination-spec#batch_size) and [`batch_size_bytes`](/docs/reference/destination-spec#batch_size_bytes).

### PostgreSQL Spec

This is the (nested) spec used by the PostgreSQL destination Plugin.

- `connection_string` (`string`) (required)

  Connection string to connect to the database. This can be a DSN or a URI, as per [`pgxpool`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/jackc/pgx/v4/pgxpool#ParseConfig)

  - `"user=user password=pass+0-[word host=localhost port=5432 dbname=mydb sslmode=disable"` _DSN format_
  - `"postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/mydb?sslmode=prefer"` _connect with tcp and prefer TLS_
  - `"postgres://user:pass@localhost:5432/mydb?sslmode=disable&application_name=pgxtest&search_path=myschema&connect_timeout=5"` _be explicit with all options_
  - `"postgres://localhost:5432/mydb?sslmode=disable"` _connect with os username cloudquery is being run as_
  - `"postgres:///mydb?host=/tmp"` _connect over unix socket_
  - `"dbname=mydb"` _unix domain socket, just specifying the db name - useful if you want to use peer authentication_

- `pgx_log_level` (`string`) (optional) (default: `error`)

  Available: `error`, `warn`, `info`, `debug`, `trace`.
  Defines what [`pgx`](https://github.com/jackc/pgx) call events should be logged.

- `batch_size` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `10000`)

  Maximum number of items that may be grouped together to be written in a single write.

- `batch_size_bytes` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `100000000` (= 100 MB))

  Maximum size of items that may be grouped together to be written in a single write.

- `batch_timeout` (`duration`) (optional) (default: `60s` (= 60 seconds))

  Maximum interval between batch writes.

- `create_performance_indexes` (`boolean`) (optional) (default: `false`)

  Creates indexes on tables that help with performance when using `write_mode: overwrite-delete-stale`.

- `retry_on_deadlock` (`integer`) (optional) (default: `0`)
  
  Number of times to retry a transaction if a deadlock is detected by Postgres (Postgres error code `40P01`).

### Verbose logging for debug

The PostgreSQL destination can be run in debug mode.

Note: This will use [`pgx`](https://github.com/jackc/pgx) built-in logging and might output data/sensitive information to logs so make sure to not use it in production but only for debugging.

```yaml copy
kind: destination
spec:
  name: postgresql
  path: cloudquery/postgresql
  registry: cloudquery
  version: "VERSION_DESTINATION_POSTGRESQL"
  spec:
    connection_string: ${PG_CONNECTION_STRING}
    pgx_log_level: debug # Available: error, warn, info, debug, trace. Default: "error"
```
